src/content/docs/durable-objects/api/namespace.mdx, before:

---
title: Durable Object Namespace
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

## Description

A Durable Object namespace is a set of Durable Object instances that are backed by the same Durable Object class. There is only one Durable Object namespace per class. A Durable Object namespace can contain any number of Durable Object instances.

The `DurableObjectNamespace` interface is used to obtain a reference to new or existing Durable Object instances. The interface is accessible from the fetch handler on a Cloudflare Worker via the `env` parameter, which is the standard interface when referencing bindings declared in `wrangler.toml`.

This interface defines several [methods](/durable-objects/api/namespace/#methods) that can be used to create an ID for a Durable Object instance. Note that creating an ID for a Durable Object instance does not create the Durable Object. The Durable Object is created lazily after calling [`DurableObjectNamespace::get`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/#get) to create a [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) from a `DurableObjectId`. This ensures that objects are not constructed until they are actually accessed.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

// Durable Object
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
  ...
}

// Worker
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    // Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
    const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

    // A stub is a client Object used to invoke methods defined by the Durable Object instance
    const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
    ...
  }
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export interface Env {
  MY_DURABLE_OBJECT: DurableObjectNamespace<MyDurableObject>;
}

// Durable Object
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
  ...
}

// Worker
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    // Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
    const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

    // A stub is a client Object used to invoke methods defined by the Durable Object instance
    const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
    ...
  }
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Methods

### `idFromName`

`idFromName` creates a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) which refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class from a particular name.

```js
const fooId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");
const barId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("bar");
```

#### Parameters

- A required string to be used to generate a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) corresponding to the name of a Durable Object instance.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `newUniqueId`

`newUniqueId` creates a `DurableObjectId` which refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class. When using `newUniqueId`, you need to store the ID as a string in order to refer to the same Durable Object again in the future. For example, the ID can be stored in Workers KV, another Durable Object instance, or in a cookie in the user's browser.

```js
const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId();
const euId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId({ jurisdiction: "eu" });
```

:::note[`newUniqueId` results in lower request latency at first use]

The first time you get a Durable Object stub based on an ID derived from a name, the system has to take into account the possibility that a Worker on the opposite side of the world could have coincidentally accessed the same named Durable Object at the same time. To guarantee that only one instance of the Durable Object is created, the system must check that the Durable Object has not been created anywhere else. Due to the inherent limit of the speed of light, this round-the-world check can take up to a few hundred milliseconds. `newUniqueId` can skip this check.

After this first use, the location of the Durable Object instance will be cached around the world so that subsequent lookups are faster.

:::

#### Parameters

- An optional object with the key `jurisdiction` and value of a [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction) string.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of the Durable Object class.

### `idFromString`

`idFromString` creates a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) from a previously generated ID that has been converted to a string. This method throws an exception if the ID is invalid, for example, if the ID was not created from the same `DurableObjectNamespace`.

<Render file="example-id-from-string" />

#### Parameters

- A required string corresponding to a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) previously generated either by `newUniqueId` or `idFromName`.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `get`

`get` obtains a [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) from a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) which can be used to invoke methods on a Durable Object instance.

This method returns the stub immediately, often before a connection has been established to the Durable Object instance. This allows requests to be sent to the instance right away, without waiting for a network round trip.

```js
const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId();
const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
```

#### Parameters

- A required [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id)
- An optional object with the key `locationHint` and value of a [locationHint](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#provide-a-location-hint) string.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `jurisdiction`

`jurisdiction` creates a subnamespace from a namespace where all Durable Object instance IDs and references created from that subnamespace will be restricted to the specified [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction).

```js
const subnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("foo");
const euId = subnamespace.idFromName("foo");
```

#### Parameters

- A required [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction) string.

#### Return values

- A `DurableObjectNamespace` scoped to a particular geographic jurisdiction.

## Related resources

- [Durable Objects: Easy, Fast, Correct – Choose Three](https://blog.cloudflare.com/durable-objects-easy-fast-correct-choose-three/).
- [Durable Objects best practices](/durable-objects/best-practices/access-durable-objects-from-a-worker/).

Commit message:

fixup! Move reference documentation out of Durable Objects best practices

src/content/docs/durable-objects/api/namespace.mdx, after:

---
title: Durable Object Namespace
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

## Description

A Durable Object namespace is a set of Durable Object instances that are backed by the same Durable Object class. There is only one Durable Object namespace per class. A Durable Object namespace can contain any number of Durable Object instances.

The `DurableObjectNamespace` interface is used to obtain a reference to new or existing Durable Object instances. The interface is accessible from the fetch handler on a Cloudflare Worker via the `env` parameter, which is the standard interface when referencing bindings declared in `wrangler.toml`.

This interface defines several [methods](/durable-objects/api/namespace/#methods) that can be used to create an ID for a Durable Object instance. Note that creating an ID for a Durable Object instance does not create the Durable Object. The Durable Object is created lazily after calling [`DurableObjectNamespace::get`](/durable-objects/api/namespace/#get) to create a [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) from a `DurableObjectId`. This ensures that objects are not constructed until they are actually accessed.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">

```js
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

// Durable Object
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
  ...
}

// Worker
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    // Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
    const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

    // A stub is a client Object used to invoke methods defined by the Durable Object instance
    const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
    ...
  }
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">

```ts
import { DurableObject } from "cloudflare:workers";

export interface Env {
  MY_DURABLE_OBJECT: DurableObjectNamespace<MyDurableObject>;
}

// Durable Object
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
  ...
}

// Worker
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    // Every unique ID refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class
    const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");

    // A stub is a client Object used to invoke methods defined by the Durable Object instance
    const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
    ...
  }
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Methods

### `idFromName`

`idFromName` creates a unique [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) which refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class. Named Durable Object instances are the most common method of referring to Durable Object instances.

```js
const fooId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("foo");
const barId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.idFromName("bar");
```

#### Parameters

- A required string to be used to generate a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) corresponding to the name of a Durable Object instance.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `newUniqueId`

`newUniqueId` creates a randomly generated and unique [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) which refers to an individual instance of the Durable Object class. IDs created using `newUniqueId`, will need to be stored as a string in order to refer to the same Durable Object again in the future. For example, the ID can be stored in Workers KV, another Durable Object instance, or in a cookie in the user's browser.

```js
const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId();
const euId = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId({ jurisdiction: "eu" });
```

:::note[`newUniqueId` results in lower request latency at first use]

The first time you get a Durable Object stub based on an ID derived from a name, the system has to take into account the possibility that a Worker on the opposite side of the world could have coincidentally accessed the same named Durable Object at the same time. To guarantee that only one instance of the Durable Object is created, the system must check that the Durable Object has not been created anywhere else. Due to the inherent limit of the speed of light, this round-the-world check can take up to a few hundred milliseconds. `newUniqueId` can skip this check.

After this first use, the location of the Durable Object instance will be cached around the world so that subsequent lookups are faster.

:::

#### Parameters

- An optional object with the key `jurisdiction` and value of a [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction) string.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of the Durable Object class.

### `idFromString`

`idFromString` creates a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) from a previously generated ID that has been converted to a string. This method throws an exception if the ID is invalid, for example, if the ID was not created from the same `DurableObjectNamespace`.

<Render file="example-id-from-string" />

#### Parameters

- A required string corresponding to a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) previously generated either by `newUniqueId` or `idFromName`.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `get`

`get` obtains a [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) from a [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id) which can be used to invoke methods on a Durable Object instance.

This method returns the stub immediately, often before a connection has been established to the Durable Object instance. This allows requests to be sent to the instance right away, without waiting for a network round trip.

```js
const id = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.newUniqueId();
const stub = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.get(id);
```

#### Parameters

- A required [`DurableObjectId`](/durable-objects/api/id)
- An optional object with the key `locationHint` and value of a [locationHint](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#provide-a-location-hint) string.

#### Return values

- A [`DurableObjectStub`](/durable-objects/api/stub) referring to an instance of a Durable Object class.

### `jurisdiction`

`jurisdiction` creates a subnamespace from a namespace where all Durable Object instance IDs and references created from that subnamespace will be restricted to the specified [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction).

```js
const subnamespace = env.MY_DURABLE_OBJECT.jurisdiction("foo");
const euId = subnamespace.idFromName("foo");
```

#### Parameters

- A required [jurisdiction](/durable-objects/reference/data-location/#restrict-durable-objects-to-a-jurisdiction) string.

#### Return values

- A `DurableObjectNamespace` scoped to a particular geographic jurisdiction.

## Related resources

- [Durable Objects: Easy, Fast, Correct – Choose Three](https://blog.cloudflare.com/durable-objects-easy-fast-correct-choose-three/).
